New Blog, Goodbye Wordpress
###########################

:category: General

Yes, I'm a little ashamed that I did used to run Wordpress as my blog and my
website.  Being a Python developer that I am, it's not exactly good form, nor
is it good for one's sanity to have to keep updating something every few days
with security updates.  Maybe I'm giving PHP applications and Wordpress a hard
time given their prevalence out in the wild, but the fact remains that it just
wasn't working for me.  It might also have a little to do with the fact that my
existing web host has decided to increase my costs by about 1000% per year
(yes, that's a 10-fold increase).  Either way, I'll pass on both.

New path
~~~~~~~~

So, I decided a change of scenery was the way to go and since `Pelican
<http://getpelican.com>`_, a static blog generator was one of the most popular
Python-based solutions, I thought it was a nice choice.  After reading many,
many articles about which static site generator to use (some articles listed
50+ options), it's any wonder anyone can make any sort of informed decision.
The reason behind mine is that popularity is a good thing - something that
keeps bug fixes and features rolling in for time to come.

After a few days here and there over the last few months, I've been slowly
improving Pelican to suit my requirements and it's shaping up well.  The good
news for everyone else is that all my fixes have been merged into the main code
base -- including some Wordpress importer improvements and other fixes.  So
far, it's doing everything I need it to, although there's still some more
things I'd like to investigate like:

* Adding a custom CSS file as part of an existing theme.  So far it seems 
  1 theme == 1 CSS file, but I could be wrong.
  
* Clean up some CSS in the default theme.  Some things just look plain off.

* Extending existing themes or just being able to use a theme but override one
  or two bits (eg one template).  I'm unsure if this can happen yet.

And now...
~~~~~~~~~~

Welcome to my new site.  Apologies for some of the really old and outdated
content around.  Some people still access those links so presumably someone's
getting some use out of it.  During the import, it was funny to see how much
things (and I) have changed in the last few years.  So, sorry in advance for
the lack of quality in post content from several years ago.  Maybe it'll prove
fun to read in years to come for someone.

Issues?
~~~~~~~

This site is open-source!  Report issues you see at 
https://github.com/davidjb/davidjb.github.com.
