Tips for the USA: Car Rental, Navigation and SIM Cards
######################################################

:category: Personal
:tags: Personal, Travel

I've travelled to the USA a few times over the past years and typically start
the trip from California.  The United States is a big country with that comes
complexity and a lot to learn as a visitor.  This short guide covers a few key
things that an Australian in the States needs to know.  If you're from another
country, it'll probably help you too but just keep in mind that things are
geared to Australians.

All info is correct at the time of writing.  Also, it goes without saying that
all information is offered without any form of warranty or guarantee.
Comments are always welcome, mind you.

SIM Cards and Phones
====================

It's easy to get a SIM card before you leave for the USA.  A company like
`Travel SIMs Direct
<http://travelsimsdirect.com/product-category/usa/t-mobile/?country_option=200>`_
is who I tend to use and go with the T-Mobile options.  That said, you tend to
pay an extra premium these days for the convenience of getting the SIM card
before you leave Australia, but definitely check to see if there are good
deals available.  Depends on how much fiddling you want to do on the ground
after you arrive.

Alternatively, you can pick up a SIM when you get the USA, but you might have
fun getting to the location to buy one.  If you've got a car or are willing to
pay for Uber/taxi then you'll be fine.  Plus if you're non-technical you get
the benefit of a cheerful store rep to help you activate your SIM.  In that
case, check out your local AT&T store because their coverage is excellent,
speed is good, and price is right at USD$45 per month for 6GB data, roaming in
Canada/Mexico and unlimited calls (at time of writing).  Check out the details
on the `GoPhone website
<https://www.att.com/shop/wireless/gophone-plans.html>`_. By contrast,
T-Mobile's prices can be cheaper (sometimes) but you won't get as good
coverage.  For instance, I've found blackspots indoors in LA, even in a
well-windowed house.

Which SIM you go with it depends on what you need from your mobile provider --
for instance, are you planning on visiting Mexico or Canada whilst you're in
the USA?  If so, then you'll need roaming because - unsurprisingly - they're
different countries.  Think about how much data you think you'll need -- if
you're using Skype to call home and looking up plenty of guides then you might
need several gigabytes of data.

Something notably different from Australia is that you get charged for
incoming calls in the States, as well as outgoing calls as you'd normally
expect.  By "charged", I mean that if your account has a limited number of
minutes a month (say 1000), then you've got that many minutes total for calls
you make and *receive*.  Most of the big plans that you might pick with lots
of data tend to also have unlimited minutes so it's probably not that much
of an issue.  Plus something like 1000 minutes in/out is a lot of talk time
for just a month.  Anyway, aren't you on holiday?


Car Rentals and Insurance
=========================

This is a surprisingly major issue for me as an Australian.  I suppose this
should be expected given how litigious the USA is but there's a lot of key
differences between Australian motoring operation and the USA.  Firstly, in
order to legally drive any vehicle, particularly a rental care, each driver
must be named on the rental agreement - the same as here in Australia.  This
means you'll have your driver's licence sighted and recorded at the time of
rental. The only exceptions to this are in your rental terms and conditions,
but in my experience, typically someone who isn't on the agreement can only
drive in an emergency.  Immediate family, such as a spouse, might also be
allowed to drive without being named.  If you're arriving later than when your
travel companions pick up a car, you may be able to visit a rental agency and
have them amend the booking; it may cost extra though.

Now comes the mirth that is insurance.  Each driver must have *personal
insurance* in order to legally drive in the USA.  This is the equivalent of
CTP (Compulsory Third Party) insurance here in Australia, which covers you for
any death or injury you cause in your role as a vehicle operator.  However,
the key difference is that for us this insurance is on the *vehicle* and
already included in the registration of all vehicles across the country.  In
the USA, it's a little different because the insurance is on an individual
*person* and in order to legally drive, each different state has their own
minimum value of insurance required (see this `Wikipedia article
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vehicle_insurance_in_the_United_States>`_ to
learn more).

In a rental agreement, this type of insurance is called a combination of:

* *SLI* (Supplemental Liability Insurance);
* *ALI* (Additional Liability Insurance); and
* *PAI* (Personal Accident Insurance).

At the time of writing, I have not found any insurer in Australia that offers
this type of personal insurance and your travel insurance (if any; you really
should have it for medical cover, but that's a different story) explicitly
denies coverage of operating a vehicle.  I've also tried sourcing this
insurance inside the USA but after much searching and calls, no insurer would
cover a non-resident.  So, the only way a traveller can get this insurance is
from the rental car agency.  If you know otherwise, I'd love to hear from you;
comment below.

It's really important to know that essentially all car rental rates quoted
from travel comparison sites (eg Expedia, Travelocity etc) or car rental
companies directly typically don't include this insurance in their quoted
price.  The result is a shock on your part when you get a good "deal" and then
are forced to pay upwards of $10 USD **per day** at the rental desk if you
book in this way.  Do your calculations and read the terms and conditions and
make sure you know how much you'll pay all up.

One solution is to use a broker like `Happy Tours USA
<http://www.happytoursusa.com/en/index.php>`_ who list all their prices with
"Third Party Liability Insurance" included in the price, as well as collision
damage and theft insurance as well.  These types of brokers aren't very common
and the few that I knew of have closed in the last years.

The best option I found - although this only works if you're picking up the
car in California, is to rent directly with Hertz.  They offer $1 million of
SLI automatically to foreigners (eg, as long as you have a foreign driver's
licence) and also provide a $0 excess for loss/collision damage (LDW) for
free; so you're automatically covered for personal liability and if you hit
anything or your car gets stolen.  There's usually some `deals on with Hertz
<https://www.hertz.com.au/rentacar/Car-hire-deals?categoryId=T>`_.  Make sure
you read the Hertz T&Cs down the bottom of the page when you search for a date
range and confirm the insurance is right for you.  A final aside about Hertz:
if you prepay your rate in AUD, you'll might find random charges for some
discrepancy; talk to the customer service people when you drop the car and
they'll fix it.

In summary, read the T&Cs in detail before you book and ensure you have the
correct insurance. That way, when you get to the rental desk, if they demand
you buy some insurance, you can refuse and point out why.  In my experience,
the person at the desk always tries to up-sell you insurance, fuel, GPS etc,
presumably because they're working on commission.

Lastly, if you're thinking of driving without being on the rental agreement or
without the correct insurance, you're in for pain if you get pulled over by
the police or hit/are hit by someone.  Don't cut corners; it's possible to get
a great deal on a rental without getting screwed at the counter.

Much of this I'd discovered through trial-and-error but there's another great
reference on `LonelyPlanet` for a breakdown of all things rental cars in the
USA.

Navigation in the USA
=====================

If you're planning on going anywhere you'll want a GPS.  In this day
and age, you should skip trying to use a dedicated GPS device. They're old,
slow, clunky, maps are usually outdated, don't commonly have traffic
information and are limited to being useful in a car.  You've almost certainly
got a smartphone already so just use an app on your phone.  It's better in
every way and also means you don't have to lug around yet another device -- it
also means you can use your phone when walking or on public transport.

Here's a quick list of travel apps that offer navigation:

* `Here WeGo
  <https://here.com/en/products-services/consumer-app/here-wego-app>`_: a
  great free app that allows you to download maps ahead of time to navigate
  offline. *Here* also has traffic data if you're online.

* *Google Maps*: if you're on iPhone, this needs download and needs data for
  routing and traffic information.  That said, it is very good for traffic and
  searching for locations, especially when you're only vaguely sure of a name
  or address.

* *Apple Maps*: built in to iPhone, this needs data again but is excellent for
  traffic and for public transport maps.  In my experience, the public
  transport maps are the clearest I've seen, especially when looking at
  complicated maps of New York and Washington DC.

For travelling, you should definitely get a USA phone SIM so that you have
data.  This means that you can see live traffic updates (a must in big cities
like Los Angeles) and get live public transport information no matter where
you go.   It's certainly possible to survive without access to the Internet
but navigation will be a challenge, particularly in a car, because of the
sheer volume of traffic.  If you have local knowledge of an area, this will
trump all apps though -- for instance, don't even think about travelling
between 6am and 9am or 3pm and 7pm in LA.

Finally, when using your phone in the car for navigation, you'll need to keep
it charged and also in the line of sight of the driver.  I take my own
suction-cupped window mount to put my phone in; you can find one of these
pretty much anywhere that phones are sold or online on eBay or AliExpress for
dirt-cheap.  In terms of charging, you'll need a car charger (and it's best to
get a good quality one that can charge your phone quickly).  An unfortunate
situation now exists in that many rental cars come with USB ports but these
are rarely provide enough current to charge your power-hungry modern phone.  I
take my own `Blitzwolf charger
<http://www.banggood.com/Qualcomm-Certified-BlitzWolf-BW-C5-54W-Quick-Charge-QC-2_0-4-Port-USB-Car-Charger-p-1019904.html?rmmds=search>`_
that provides QC support.  And of course, take at least a few
charging cables so you can connect your phone and your travel companions'
devices.

Breakdown support
=================

As an added bonus, here's how to make your Australian automobile club
membership (such as RACQ, RACV, NRMA or the like) work for you in the USA.
Firstly, know that your auto club membership extends to the USA with automatic
reciprocal membership; take your physical club card with you.  This gives you
breakdown support from the AAA (American Automotobile Association), including
towing, breakdown help, winching, emergency fuel and a lockout service if you
happen to lock your keys in the car.  All you have to do is call AAA’s
Emergency Road Service on **1-800-AAA-HELP (1-800-222-4357)**; you might want
to record this phone number in your contacts.

Refer to the `AAA Breakdown
<http://www.aaa.com/PPInternational/International.html>`_ site for more
information and check the `support offered <http://www.aaa.com/PPInternational/Benefits_Intl_to_US.html>`_
for the latest details.

.. _`LonelyPlanet`: https://www.lonelyplanet.com/thorntree/forums/americas-united-states-of-america/united-states/usa-branch-faq?page=15#post_9704324
