A little time out
#################
:date: 2009-10-11 22:17
:author: davidjb
:category: Personal
:tags: house, life, Personal, settlement, squash
:slug: a-little-time-out

Taking a little time out from the professional blogging, here's a page
out of my personal side of things.

Things have been very busy as of late and, as the previous sentance
suggests, not just with work. Tomorrow's the day when my and my
partner's house settlement takes place and after all the bumps along the
way, we've finally gotten there. The bumps were sadly some very
unprofessional dealings with my fiancier credit union (who will
otherwise remain nameless), an inability of lawyers and conveyancers to
add numbers together, and a whole lot of confusion. As I said,
thankfully that's all soon to be behind us now anyway. Then, we've just
got to either kindly ask the tenants to move out or wait until their
lease expires in Feburary 2010, and then we're into the place. Here's
hoping it's before Christmas, but we're not holding our breath.

Been playing squash a whole lot more as of late and I'm currently paying
the price for several over-stretched shots. Considering I've never been
much of a sports person or really even been very active at all, I've
been playing and developing reasonably well [or so I'm told]. Best thing
is that I do enjoy the game and our local courts are air conditioned at
the University (and cheap too). At any rate, I'm getting fitter (which
is good/scary) and getting out of the house and away from technology for
a bit.

And of course, back on the topic of technology, I've been
introduced/coerced into the world of Left4Dead. Quite an enjoyable game,
if one enjoys the notion of ending zombie after zombie. Whilst the
storyline isn't unique by any stretch of the imagination (infection
wipes out world and turns people to zombies), the characters and their
'personalities' are very, very close to those from the BBC TV series
Survivors which was on as of late. Whilst there were no zombies in
Survivors, the idea is reasonably similar.

I think from all the many doses of post-apocalyptic drama and gameplay,
if the world ever does come to an end as we know it, methinks I've got a
good chance of making it. Here's hoping anyway.

Back to normality on my next post since it's back to work tomorrow.
Hopefully going to polish off the projects I'm working on shortly and
impress some people (including myself)...
