DIY - Replace your Logitech Premium Notebook Headset foam ear pads
##################################################################
:date: 2010-12-04 00:56
:author: davidjb
:category: Hardware
:tags: foam, headphones, logitech, maths, pads, problem, solution
:slug: replace-your-logitech-premium-notebook-headset-foam-ear-pads

So, I'm the proud owner of a set of a `Logitech Premium Notebook
Headset`_. I purchased these headphones a fair while ago - around 2
years - and just like any set of headphones, the foam ear pads
deteriorated away when I took them out to use them after a long spell in
storage. Usually, this wouldn't be a problem if it were a set of
headphones that used a standard shaped ear pad -- just buy some
replacement foam pages and put them on. These headphones aren't so, with
the shape being more like a D shape rather than an oval or circle.

Now, Googling around lead me to find posts like `this`_ discussing that
Logitech don't sell replacement pads. That post's pretty old but it's
still relevant, since I can't find anywhere that mentions a solution.
People might want to give up and buy another set, but I for one am not
going to settle for letting a $60 pair of headphones go to waste for
such a trivial reason. In addition, looking around on eBay for **cheap**
replacement foam pads meant it was circular pads or bust. Hmm.  This
post covers how to quickly and cheaply *replace your pads*!

The short answer is to buy this or similar:
`http://cgi.ebay.com.au/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=160508622179`_--
it's a 4.5cm-diameter (45mm) black foam pad, with a good amount of depth
to it (for stretching). Buy this, and replace your pads. Problem solved
for a mere **$2** including shipping (give or take)..and I got 4 pairs
of pads.  For a more detailed outline, read on.

So, my solution is simply buy a suitably sized set of circular pads, and
I have a very good feeling this is what Logitech use. Measuring up my
ear speaker housing on the headphones, I approximated the shape to be an
oval. Thanks to the fact foam has a bit of flexibility and give, I
figured that you can "squish" a circular pad, and have it almost form
the right shape. Using some maths, I calculated what sort of circle size
could be squashed to result in a correctly-sized oval (eg reduce height
to increase width) and the answer is a **4.5cm (45mm) foam pad**.

I've since discarded my actual working out, but my working depended on
the axiom that the foam pad's area (in a 2D plane) remains constant when
being squished.  Whether my theory and calculations were perfect, I
don't know, but I do know that I bought that given item from eBay, and
with the tiniest amount of manipulation, the pads slipped on and my
headphones are perfect.  The fit is nice and snug; seemingly, I won't
need glue to keep them on.  Yay for maths in the real world!

The item mentioned above has sold and I'm not sure if the seller has any
more (or will have in 2 years when I need more pads!).  In any case, as
long as the pads are that diameter, and have a decent depth/height to
them (eg will fit around the earphones and be held in place), then you
should be fine.

Good luck fixing your headsets.

.. _Logitech Premium Notebook Headset: http://www.logitech.com/en-gb/speakers-audio/headphones/devices/223
.. _this: http://forums.logitech.com/t5/Headphones-Headsets-Microphones/Premium-Notebook-Headset-Foam-Earpad-Replacements/td-p/87499
.. _`http://cgi.ebay.com.au/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=160508622179`: http://cgi.ebay.com.au/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=160508622179
